# Home_Sales

Determining key metrics about home sales using SparkSQL, caching, and partitioning to optimize the efficiency of queries from an AWS housed dataset in the cloud

- - -

## Instructions

- Answer the following questions using SparkSQL:

  - What is the average price for a four-bedroom house sold for each year? Round off your answer to two decimal places.

  - What is the average price of a home for each year it was built that has three bedrooms and three bathrooms? Round off your answer to two decimal places.

  - What is the average price of a home for each year that has three bedrooms, three bathrooms, two floors, and is greater than or equal to 2,000 square feet? Round off your answer to two decimal places.

  - What is the "view" rating for homes costing more than or equal to $350,000? Determine the run time for this query, and round off your answer to two decimal places.

- Using the cached data, run the query that filters out the view ratings with an average price of greater than or equal to $350,000. Determine the runtime and compare it to uncached runtime.

- Partition by the "date_built" field on the formatted parquet home sales data.

- Create a temporary table for the parquet data.

- Run the query that filters out the view ratings with an average price of greater than or equal to $350,000. Determine the runtime and compare it to uncached runtime.

- Uncache the `home_sales` temporary table.

- Verify that the `home_sales` temporary table is uncached using PySpark.

- Download your `Home_Sales.ipynb` file and upload it into your "Home_Sales" GitHub repository.

## Requirements

1. A Spark DataFrame is created from the dataset. (5 points)

2. A temporary table of the original DataFrame is created. (10 points)

3. A query is written that returns the average price, rounded to two decimal places, for a four-bedroom house that was sold in each year. (5 points)

4. A query is written that returns the average price, rounded to two decimal places, of a home that has three bedrooms and three bathrooms. (5 points)

5. A query is written that returns the average price of a home with three bedrooms, three bathrooms, two floors, and is greater than or equal to 2,000 square feet for each year built rounded to two decimal places. (5 points)

6. A query is written that returns the view rating for the average price for homes that are greater than or equal to $350,000, rounded to two decimal places. (The output shows the run time for this query.) (10 points)

7. A cache of the temporary "home_sales" table is created and validated. (10 points)

8. The query from step 6 is run on the cached temporary table, and the run time is computed. (10 points)

9. A partition of the home sales dataset by the "date_built" field is created, and the formatted parquet data is read. (10 points)

10. A temporary table of the parquet data is created. (10 points)

11. The query from step 6 is run on the parquet temporary table, and the run time is computed. (10 points)

12. The "home_sales" temporary table is uncached and verified. (10 points)

- - -

## References

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
